Hello everyone, welcome.
I'm Ningxin Hu, a principal engineer at Intel.
I'm participating in the W3C machine learning
for the web community group.
Today, my topic is about the new web standard proposal,
the Web Neural Network API
and how it can help web apps and frameworks
to access purpose-built machine learning hardware.
I'd like to thank everyone who contributes to this proposal.
Slide two.
slide-2
As you know, in the last decade,
the machine learning, in particular,
the deep learning has been getting increasingly important
and widely applied in many applications,
computer vision, speech recognition, noise cancellation.
Nowadays, thanks to the emerging
JavaScript machine learning frameworks,
the web apps
now can easily incorporate this innovative usage
by running the machine learning models in the web browser.
Underlining those frameworks usually leverage WebAssembly,
WebGL and WebGPU to run the machine learning computation
on CPU and GPU, respectively.
Slide three.
slide-3
On the other hand,
to the exponential increasement of the computing demand
for machine learning workload,
the innovation of hardware architecture
is advancing very fast.
The machine learning extensions has been added
into the CPU and GPU.
A bunch of new dedicated machine learning accelerators
is emerging, such as NPU, VPU and DSP.
These dedicated accelerators
not only help optimize the performance
but also help reduce the power consumption.
By taking advantage of these hardware features,
the native apps got very good performance.
So, how about the web?
Slide four.
slide-4
To compare the performance of web and native,
we use MobileNet as workload
and measure the inference latency.
For hardware devices,
we use a laptop with Vector Neural Network Instructions,
as known as VNNI in the CPU,
and a smartphone has a DSP.
According to the charts, there is a big performance gap
between web and native.
For instance, on the laptop,
the native CPU inference is about 10 times faster
than WebAssembly for a float32 precision.
The reason behind that
is a native can access 256 bit Vector Instruction,
however, WebAssembly only has 128 bit.
The native GPU inference is about nine times faster
than WebGL for a float16 precision.
That's because optimized machine learning kernels
within the GPU driver are not available to WebGL.
On the smartphone,
we observed a similar result.
If we go lower precision inference,
as known as quantization,
which is a widely used technique
to optimize the inference performance,
the VNNI and DSP are designed to accelerate that.
So, if using the eigh8 bit precision on the laptop,
the native inference can be 24 times faster than web.
And on the smartphone,
the DSP inference can be 16 times faster than the web.
Slide five.
slide-5
The JavaScript machine learning frameworks
cannot take advantage of these hardware features,
that leads to the big performance gap.
It would be good to expose them on web platform.
However, due to the architecture diversity
of this new machine learning hardware,
it is quite challenging to expose them
by the general CPU and GPU compute web APIs.
Given that, we are proposing a new domain specific web API
to access the hardware acceleration for machine learning.
Slide six.
slide-6
The proposal is a Web Neural Network API, known as WebNN.
At the first stage,
it focuses on the hardware acceleration for the inference.
It introduces the primitives of the deep neural network
to the web platform.
The primitives include tensor operant.
Tensor operant represents the multi-dimensional array
in different data type including float point 32, 16,
and integer 32, 8.
The primitives also include a set of tensor operations,
such as convolution, matrix multiplication,
pulling, atom-wise and activation.
These operations are either compute-intensive
or memory bandwidth bounded.
The acceleration of them
is critical to the inference performance.
By using these primitives,
the JavaScript machine learning framework
can define a computational graph.
The graph can represent part or whole
of a machine learning inference model.
Then, the framework can use WebNN API
to compile and execute the graph for hardware acceleration.
The execution of the WebNN graph can interact with kernels
written in WebAssembly or WebGPU compute shader.
With that, the frameworks can be flexible
by using the WebNN for hardware acceleration
and using WebAssembly, WebGPU for custom operation support.
The primitives of WebNN can be mapped
to the native machine learning API
available on different operating systems,
such as Android Neural Network API, DirectML on Windows,
Metal Performance Shader on macOS, iOS, and OpenVINO.
Eventually, these native APIs
will talk with compilers and drivers to run these primitives
on various machine learning hardware.
Slide seven.
slide-7
WebNN proposal has four major interfaces,
the neural network context, model,
compilation and execution.
The main programming flow is like this:
first, you can get a neural network context object
from the global navigator object.
The neural network context object
has a method of tensor operant and operations,
so you can use that to define the computational graph
as the example shows.
Then, you can create a model object based on this graph.
The model object represents the hardware independent form.
For hardware acceleration,
you need to create a compilation object,
that represents the hardware specific form of this graph.
You can also specify the compilation options,
for example, high performance or low power
so browser and native API
can select an appropriate hardware for you.
After the compilation is done,
you can create the execution object.
That represents the inference request
bound with the specific input and output buffers.
The current spec support CPU buffer.
The GPU buffer and other type of input output
will be supported in the future spec.
Contributions are welcome.
Execution start compute is a synchronous operation,
that will hide the latency for the hardware acceleration.
After the promise is solved,
the result will be put into the output buffer.
Slide eight.
slide-8
To prove the concept,
we experimentally implemented the WebNN API
in a customized Chromium browser,
we followed the multi-process architecture of Chromium,
we implemented the JavaScript interface of WebNN in Blink
and the native API backend in GPU process.
The two components talk with each other
through the IPC mechanism.
To test the cross-platform interoperability and performance
on different devices,
the prototype support 4 OSs,
including Windows, Android, macOS, and Linux,
and can access the CPU, GPU and accelerators
on smartphone and PC.
Slide nine.
slide-9
Let's see some demo of the WebNN prototype.
On the laptop,
first, we test the inference performance
with WebAssembly SIMD.
Then we test the performance of WebNN CPU backend
for a float point 32 inference.
At last, we test the performance of WebNN
for integer 8 inference accelerated by VNNI.
It has close-to-native performance.
On the smartphone,
we first tested is a WebGL based inference.
Then, we inference the same model with WebNN GPU backend.
In the last, we use WebNN to access the DSP
for quantized model inference.
It has the near-to-native performance.
Slide 10.
slide-10
This slide and the next one have the performance numbers
of WebNN prototype we collected on laptop and smartphone.
Feel free to check them out.
As the number shows,
by introducing the domain specific primitives
and relying on the native machine learning API,
WebNN can help access
a purpose-built machine learning hardware
and close the gap between the web and native.
Slide 12.
slide-12
The Web Neural Network API
is an incubation within W3C machine learning
for the web Community Group.
Thanks for watching
and looking forward to your participation.